---
title: Intro. 
author: octi
date: 2023-09-01 12:00:00 +0800
categories: [Projects, MockUpBank]
tags: [IaC, DevSecOps, Tutorial]
toc: true
comments: false
---

While security researchers demonstrate their ranks in various bounty programms and threat hunters share yet another thrilling story of tracking and pinning down an APTs, avarage security engineers stay in the shadows. Most of our work is under NDA and IP rights belong to the companies we work for hence can hardly be presented to the world. Since one can't demonstrate his actual "kingdom" why not to build a mock-up one with all the bells and whistles. The benefits are obvious:

- Save time during job interviews and skills assessments. Just give your interviewers access to your setup and code.

- Gather a collection on blueprints for use in future projects

- Have fun, experiment, try to break your own guardrails, learn new things.

I've also noticed that the majority of similar projects like [CloudGoat](https://github.com/RhinoSecurityLabs/cloudgoat) or [GCPGoat](https://github.com/ine-labs/GCPGoat) focus on breaking stuff rather than building the systems properly from grounds up. Through this series of posts, I will take you through the various stages of the project, from planning and design to implementation and compliance verification. We will go over the details on how to setp the infrastructure and establsih security controls to protect it and, including access control, network segmentation, intrusion detection and prevention, and continuous monitoring. Moreover there will be bits on what evidence of operationl controls for future audits and certifications, an important yet most overlooked topic in the majority of the tutorials.

## What Are We Building

Working Techschool's [Simple Bank](https://github.com/techschool/simplebank) backend service along with the supportive infrastructure and secury controls will be the final goal of our project. While the original course covers a lot of devops related topics such as containerising apps, uploading images to the ECR and deploying them to the AWS EKS, it's main focus is still on software development, hence most of the provided recipies are aimed at simply getting your code up and running. We will spice it up with some AWS Well Architected Framework practices and DevSecOps.
> I do recommend though to go through the whole Techschool's [course](https://www.youtube.com/c/TECHSCHOOLGURU) anyway. This will add a lot to your understanding of modern application stack!
{: .prompt-tip }

Let's get to work and start coding ... some diagrams first. Sad but true, despite all the shift somewhere manifestos and devsecops buzz, in 2023 the PCI Counsil and hence the majority of security auditors consider a drawing to be the primary source of truth for the organization not your infra code (see PCI DSS 4.0 Req 1.2.3).
Even sadder, in 2023 there is still no good/universal solution for the problem of netdiagram drawing or automating the process. When I first confronted this problem I thought that it should be pretty easy to take a Terrafrom state and converting it into diagrams, right? Surprisingly, no. How do you draw the relations that are not even described in the state file? What if you use Pulumi instead? What if your state drifts or not all parts of your infra exist as code? Ok, fine, we'll query the cloud API and get all the resources... except as far as I know it's almost impossible to get and adequate list of resources and their interconnection from AWS API. Bizzare fact - the best solution here is  [aws-nuke](https://github.com/rebuy-de/aws-nuke) a tool designed to completely wipe your AWS accounts. Quel bordel!
We'll use [Diagrams as Code](https://diagrams.mingrammer.com/). Please note that this tool is also far from perfect when drawing big and complicated infrastructures and you might get back to good-old manual draw.io, Lucidchart or Visio.

> There some decent commercial tools that state automated diagram creation form both source and API, such as [cloudviz](https://cloudviz.io), [cloudcraft](https://www.cloudcraft.co/) and [hava](https://www.hava.io) which you might want to check out. It's generaly hard to allocate the budget on these tools as they are seens as "beautifiers" by the management. Use the following reasonong during the argement:
    - Abovementioned PCI DSS requirement
    - Inadequate cost/benefit ratio. It generally takes about a week of time and 2 engineers to go thtough all the infra/code and create the diagram solely for the sake of single time demonstration of compliance to the auditor.
    - The diagram needs constant revision and updating. Since for your engineers IaC is the primary source of truth the diagram will be at least 1-2 versions behind what's actually in place. Double the abovementioned expences.
Overall we are looking at 70$ hourly x 8 hours x 7 days x 2 people = 7,840$. Still an astronomical number even if compared with the fattest enterprise plans of all of the mentioned comercial tools.
{: .prompt-tip }