---
title: Intro. 
author: Octi
date: 2023-05-01 11:33:00 +0800
categories: [Projects, MockUp Infra]
tags: [IaC, DevSecOps, Tutorial]
comments: false
---

## Intro

While security researchers demonstrate their ranks in various bounty programms and threat hunters share yet another thrilling story of tracking and pinning down an APTs, avarage security engineers stay in the shadows. Most of our work is under NDA and IP rights belong to the companies we work for hence can hardly be presented to the world. Since one can't demonstrate his actual "kingdom" why not to build a mock-up one with all bells and whistles. The benefits are obvious:

- Save time during job interviews and skills assessments. Just give your interviewers access to your setup and code.

- Gather a collection on blueprints for use in future projects

- Have fun, experiment, try to break your own guardrails, learn new things.

I've also noticed that the majority of similar projects like [CloudGoat](https://github.com/RhinoSecurityLabs/cloudgoat) or [GCPGoat](https://github.com/ine-labs/GCPGoat) focus on breaking stuff rather than building the systems properly from grounds up. Through this series of posts, I will take you through the various stages of the project, from planning and design to implementation and compliance verification. We will go over the details on how to setp the infrastructure and establsih security controls to protect it and, including access control, network segmentation, intrusion detection and prevention, and continuous monitoring. Moreover there will be bits on what evidence of operationl controls for future audits and certifications, an important yet most overlooked topic in the majority of the tutorials.
